---
layout: post
title:  "Grit"
date:   2016-5-9 21:24:12
categories: learning
comments: yes
---

Google defines grit as courage and resolve; strength of character. My friend told me about a podcast on
Freakonomics on grit. During the podcast they interview Angela Duckworth about grit, since she studied it,
and wrote a book about it. Unfortunately I have not read the book. However, during the interview they mentioned
a survey that Duckworth designed to get a range of what is your grit scale. I highly encourage everyone to take it.
Yes, you can get a 5.0 without a big problem, but be honest. I have been asking people that I know to take the
 quiz and share their scores with me. These are people I know, people I’ve had conversations with, it makes me realize
  that I can learn from each of them and become grittier. My score fell a bit over 1.0. I am a bit upset, but for the most part it just encourages me to work
that much harder.
So why is my score so low?

Well, I can focus on a task for a bit, but I give up easily when there is a challenge. I give uneasily on my
long term goals. Following through on a one month goal - sure. But turning one month into many requires grit.
There are projects I have started that collect dust now. Sort of like this blog. But working on improving my
 score will be difficult, and I have to break things into smaller things, I have to take it 30 minutes at a
  time and build it up from there. New semester started today, and I am excited to apply new techniques that
  I have learned about. I’ll report on them soon.
