---
layout: post
title: "typeOf(programmer)"
date: 2017-10-07 15:00:00
categories: experience
comments: yes
---

My friend let me borrow his copy of *[Effective Programming: More Than Writing Code](http://www.hyperink.com/Effective-Programming-More-Than-Writing-Code-b1559) by Jeff Atwood*. The book talks about important topics to a programmer that my school forgot to mention. One of such things is what type of programmer do you want to be?

To summarize the chapter *The Eight Levels of Programmers*, where the levels are (this is how I read them):
1. Dead Programmer (Genius and remembered, like Dijkstra)
2. Successful Programmer (Smart business person, like Gates)
3. Famous Programmer (Recognized in their niche, like Dan Abramov)
4. Working Programmer (Very in hireable)
5. Average Programmer (Writes good code, but not great at it)
6. Amateur Programmer (Codes for fun sometimes)
7. Unknown Programmer (Writes code for $, goes home, has a life)
8. Bad Programmer (Writes code that creates more work for others)

I paused on this chapter for a few weeks. Really struggling to answer the two questions:
1. What level am I at now?
2. What level do I want to be at when I die?

Here is the best answer that I could come up with: 
Some code I write today sucks. It's bad code, but I ask for help and re-write it. I care about my code, I care about the people who will read my code. I am not yet ready to make pull requests on open source projects. But one day I would really like to do so. So maybe I am an Average Programmer, for now. 

Part of me never wants to rush to become the Successful Programmer, business adds so much responsibility that I am not sure that I will ever be able to take on. Let's also be clear they will never be teaching about me in schools either, probably for the best because they'll just be mispronouncing my name all the time, and nobody needs that. 

It would be wonderful if I could be recognized in the programming community for something I do. The best part would be meeting the other famous programmers that I admire. Another pretty awesome part would be to do something important in life. But if I could level up to Working Programmer I won't complain either. 

So which programmer level would you like to be at, and where are you at now? 