---
layout: post
title: "Marathon"
date: 2018-02-11 21:00:00
categories: experience
comments: yes
---

I finished my first cycle at Quikly! A cycle is 4 weeks long, and we complete X tasks that accomplish goal Y, so you might know it as sprint. I have worked in one week sprints and two week sprints, and it felt like a race. A stressful, productive race after which I often experienced exhaustion and fear of technical debt.

Four weeks is more like a marathon. Even my experience at Quikly feels more of a long term investment. It does not mean that I am not productive - I am, but I feel a little more comfortable about asking for help. My energy levels are a bit more evenly spread across each day, and I feel a bit more healthy mentally.

Hiring a person with limited to almost none Ruby and Rails experience was an investment on Quikly's part, and it was an investment on my part. So the marathon mentality is definitely more engrained here. For about four months it was just me and the CTO at my last gig, so I had a limited time and window to ask questions and get help. Almost every ticket I would stumble through the feature or bug for hours, and sometimes days. Unfortunately things were not going well for the company and I had to find another job.

On the first morning after my gig ended I stayed in bed the entire day, it was hard. I had my next job lined up, but I was so emotionally invested, and it hurt man. Opening code editor was out of the question for a week, I did not read books, I did not read blogs or tweets, I was physically sick with what I thought was flu, or maybe cold. I did not have another option, I run a sprint and I felt exhausted, now I had to force myself back.

It has been two months since that morning and I would like to offer you some of the things I have learned from being burnt out and how I am staying out of it:

- Treat work as a marathon, it is better to be equally productive every day (I am ashamed to admit but my wakatime chart was out of whack)
- Doing non-programming things is ok and I should not feel guilty because I am doing something else
- Keep to done list, at the end of the day I check with myself what I did, so I can reason the voice in my head that finding bugs sometimes is hard
- Ask for help more often, and take notes when you do
- Meditate, work out, have a dance off, anything that will literally shake it off and give you a boost of endorphin
- Go to meetups, keep in touch with other developers, let them share some of the excitement with you
- There is no perfect state that you must be in to be able to code, sometimes you just have to do it